<style type="text/css">
body {
  background-color: #||BACKGROUND_COLOR||;
  color: #||TEXT_COLOR||;
}
</style>
# Ettinger's Factoids - Terms of Use
&nbsp;
Use of Ettinger’s Factoids (as defined below) requires your agreement with, and is subject to, the following Terms of Use, which may be updated or otherwise changed at any time without notice to you, along with any additional terms or conditions that are referenced herein or that otherwise may apply to specific portions of Ettinger’s Factoids or Ettinger’s Factoids more generally. Your use of Ettinger’s Factoids after the Terms of Use have been updated shall be deemed to constitute acceptance by you of any and all modifications, additions or deletions to the Terms of Use caused by such update. You must ensure that anyone accessing Ettinger’s Factoids via your account complies with the Terms of Use. You will always be able to view the most current version of these Terms of Use at https://ettingers-factoids.github.io/terms-of-use. By accessing and/or using Ettinger’s Factoids, you agree to these Terms of Use. If you do not agree to all of these Terms of Use, do not use Ettinger’s Factoids.

## Scope Of These Terms Of Use

Reference to “use” means downloading, reading, listening to, or otherwise interacting with the Ettinger’s Factoids electronic platform. References to “user[s]” mean any and all individuals who download, read, listen to, or otherwise interact with the Ettinger’s Factoids electronic platform, or enable another individual or group of individuals to do so. References to "the Editors", "we", "us" and "our" in these Terms of Use mean Stephen Ettinger, Edward Feldman, and Etienne Côté.

These terms and conditions (the "Terms of Use") govern your access to and use of materials on the Ettinger’s Factoids platform. These materials are copyright Elsevier, Inc. (2017) and use of any and all materials in Ettinger’s Factoids is jointly subject to the terms of service set forth by Elsevier, Inc. and its subsidiaries and relevant third parties. Distribution of Ettinger’s Factoids occurs through digital distribution services such as the Apple iTunes App Store and Google Play, and use of Ettinger’s Factoids is subject to compliance with the terms of use of the associated digital distribution service from which it was obtained. You are solely responsible for maintaining the confidentiality and security of your digital distribution service account and for all activities that occur on or through your account. We will not be responsible for any losses arising out of the unauthorized use of your digital distribution service account.

## Eligibility

To access or use Ettinger’s Factoids, you must be 13 years of age or older. If you are 13 or older but under the age of 18, you may only use Ettinger’s Factoids with the permission of your parent or legal guardian. If you are a parent or legal guardian who is registering for a child, you hereby agree to bind your child to these Terms of Use and to fully indemnify and hold us harmless if your child breaches or disaffirms any term or condition of these Terms of Use. If you are using Ettinger’s Factoids on behalf of a company or other entity, you represent that you are authorized to legally bind that entity to these Terms of Use.

We reserve the right to refuse service to any person or group, and/or to cancel any order, in our sole discretion. Also, we reserve the right to change, without prior notice, Ettinger’s Factoids options and features, including by updating the content included within Ettinger’s Factoids. All prices and availability in Ettinger’s Factoids are subject to change at any time without prior notice. Purchases of Ettinger’s Factoids are non-refundable.

### Delivery, Access & Payment
When you purchase access to Ettinger’s Factoids, you are entering into a transaction with the digital distribution service providing access to it. By purchasing access to Ettinger’s Factoids, you acknowledge and agree that it may only be accessed through the platform on which Ettinger’s Factoids is hosted, and any other platform that we may in the future choose to support in our discretion. Use of Ettinger’s Factoids for which you purchase access requires compatible devices, Internet access, and certain software; may require periodic updates; and may be affected by the performance of these factors. Meeting these requirements, which may change from time to time, is your responsibility. You are responsible for obtaining, configuring and maintaining all computer hardware, software and communications equipment needed to access and use the Service, and for paying all third-party access charges (e.g., ISP, telecommunications, licenses etc.) incurred in meeting such requirements.

## License and Usage Terms

### License
Upon payment of all applicable fees (including applicable taxes) for access to Ettinger’s Factoids, you are granted a worldwide, non-exclusive right to view, use, and display Ettinger’s Factoids, solely for your personal, non-commercial use, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in these Terms of Use.

Any additional terms and conditions which are included within the contents of Ettinger’s Factoids shall only have effect to the extent they (i) do not conflict with the applicable usage terms set forth or referenced herein, and (ii) relate to rights and obligations solely between you and Elsevier, Inc.

### Usage Terms
Except to the extent otherwise permitted under an applicable Creative Commons license, the following additional terms and conditions shall apply to your use of Ettinger’s Factoids:
- You are authorized to use Ettinger’s Factoids only for your own internal or personal use.
- Except as permitted by any software or other means of accessing Ettinger’s Factoids, you will not commingle the content included in Ettinger’s Factoids with any content provided by a third party without our consent.
- Except as permitted by any software or other means of accessing Ettinger’s Factoids, you will not modify Ettinger’s Factoids in any manner or form, or use modified versions of Ettinger’s Factoids, for any purpose including unauthorized access to Ettinger’s Factoids, Elsevier Inc. and its subsidiaries and third parties, or a digital distribution platform.

### License to Service and Content
We hereby grant you a limited, personal, non-exclusive and non-transferable license to use and to display the text, images, videos, graphics, icons and data available on the Ettinger’s Factoids app, solely for your informational, non-commercial and personal use. This license is subject to your compliance with the terms and conditions of these Terms of Use and does not include or authorize: (a) any resale or commercial use; (b) the collection and use of any Ettinger’s Factoids listings, pictures, profiles, ratings or descriptions; (c) the distribution, public performance or public display of Ettinger’s Factoids, (d) modifying or otherwise making any derivative uses of Ettinger’s Factoids, or any portion thereof; (e) the use of any data mining, robots or similar data gathering or extraction methods; or (f) any use of Ettinger’s Factoids other than for its intended purpose. Any use of Ettinger’s Factoids other than as specifically authorized herein is strictly prohibited and will terminate the foregoing license, which we can do at any time. Such unauthorized use may also violate applicable laws including without limitation copyright and trademark laws and applicable communications regulations and statutes, which we can prosecute to the fullest extent of the law. 

### Service Usage Terms
When using Ettinger’s Factoids, you agree to abide by common standards of etiquette and act in accordance with the law. For example and without limitation, you agree:
- You will not violate, circumvent, reverse-engineer, decompile, disassemble, or otherwise tamper with any of the security technology related to Ettinger’s Factoids for any reason, or attempt to assist another person to do so.
- You will not access Ettinger’s Factoids other than through the Apple iTunes App Store or Google Play.
- Except for the provisions stated above, you will not provide access to Ettinger’s Factoids to any other person.
- You will not access or attempt to access an account that you are not authorized to access.
- You will not (i) use Ettinger’s Factoids to transmit any computer viruses, worms, defects, Trojan horses or other items of a destructive nature, (ii) use any device, software or routine that interferes with the proper working of Ettinger’s Factoids, or otherwise attempt to interfere with the proper working of Ettinger’s Factoids, or (iii) use Ettinger’s Factoids to violate the security of any computer network, crack passwords or security encryption codes, disrupt or interfere with the security of, or otherwise cause harm to, Ettinger’s Factoids.
- Your access to Ettinger’s Factoids may be restricted as to the number of devices on which you can download or access it and on the number of users that can concurrently access it.
- You will not encourage or enable any other individual or group to do any of the foregoing.

This list of prohibitions provides examples and is not complete or exclusive. We reserve the right to terminate access to Ettinger’s Factoids and your ability use it with or without cause and with or without notice, at our discretion, for any reason or for action on your part that we determine is inappropriate or disruptive to Ettinger’s Factoids. We may report to law enforcement authorities any actions that may be illegal, and any reports we receive of such conduct. When legally required or at our discretion, we will cooperate with law enforcement agencies in any investigation of alleged illegal activity involving or purportedly involving Ettinger’s Factoids, either directly or indirectly.
Except for the foregoing licenses, use of Ettinger’s Factoids does not confer any other rights. All rights not granted in these Terms of Use are reserved.

At the request of Elsevier Inc., or otherwise, we may impose restrictions on your use of Ettinger’s Factoids, including by imposing conditions or limitations on, or preventing, your ability to capture screenshots, print, or cut and paste.

We make no guarantee as to the availability or accessibility of interactive features such as tagging and annotation. Content may be stored on servers that are located outside the country in which you live, and your use indicates your agreement with this.

## Third Party Content & Links

Ettinger’s Factoids may contain links to certain Internet websites ("third party websites") or other content ("third party content") developed, sponsored or maintained by third parties unaffiliated with us. Should you leave Ettinger’s Factoids using such a link, the content on the third-party website you are viewing is third party content and is not provided or controlled by us. Therefore, you engage in use of such third-party content at your own risk, and under terms that do not infringe the Terms of Use described here, nor our Privacy Policy. 

We have not developed, checked for accuracy or otherwise reviewed the content of any third-party content or privacy policy of any third party source that we may embed or link to. Additionally, third party content could be offensive, indecent or otherwise objectionable. By providing access to third-party sources and their content, we are not recommending, endorsing or sponsoring those sources nor any aspect of those sources, nor stating or implying any form of support or rejection of such sources.

As part of routine discourse, users of Ettinger’s Factoids may wish to post content or submit material on third party websites, including social media sites, blogs, personal webpages, and the like. You may not post any content or submit any material that is illegal, obscene, threatening, harassing, defamatory, invasive of privacy, infringing of intellectual property rights, or otherwise injurious to third parties or objectionable, nor may such content or material consist of or contain software viruses, political campaigning, commercial solicitation, chain letters, mass mailings, or any form of "spam." You acknowledge that we reserve the right (but have no obligation) to remove or edit such content and that content or material that has been posted or submitted by others may be offensive, indecent or objectionable. We take no responsibility and assume no liability for any content posted by you or any third party.

If you do post content or submit material, you grant us a nonexclusive, royalty-free, perpetual, irrevocable, and fully sublicensable right to use, reproduce, modify, adapt, publish, translate, create derivative works from, distribute, and display such content throughout the world in any media. You grant us the right to use the name that you submit in connection with such content. You represent and warrant that you own or otherwise control all of the rights to the content that you post; that the content is accurate; that use of the content you supply does not violate these Terms of Use and will not cause injury to any person or entity; and that you will indemnify us for all claims resulting from content you supply.

## Intellectual Property Rights

Except as may otherwise be permitted under a Creative Commons (CC) License with respect to publisher content, you may only use Ettinger’s Factoids, including its applications and features, for your internal or personal use. We, our publisher partners and our other licensors reserve all of our and their rights in the intellectual property rights included in Ettinger’s Factoids, which have not been expressly granted to you. You may not remove any patent, copyright, trademark or other proprietary notices from any content. Further, you may not distribute, modify, transmit, lease, sublease, loan, sell, reuse, re-post, use or create derivative works based on any content of Ettinger’s Factoids for public or commercial purposes (except to the extent otherwise permitted under a CC License for Publisher Content). Any use not expressly permitted could violate our or our licensors’ intellectual property rights, including our or our licensors’ copyrights in Ettinger’s Factoids.

The name Ettinger’s Factoids and the Ettinger’s Factoids logo are proprietary marks under our ownership. Apple, iPad and iOS are registered trademarks of Apple Inc. All other brand and product names are or may be trademarks of their respective owners. You do not have any license or right, by implication, estoppel, or otherwise, to use any mark, trademark, logo or service mark displayed on Ettinger’s Factoids without our written permission.

## DMCA Copyright Notice
If you believe that your work has been copied in a way that constitutes copyright infringement, please provide us (ettingersfactoids@gmail.com) with the following written information:
- an electronic or physical signature of the person authorized to act on behalf of the owner of the copyright interest;
- a description of the copyrighted work that you claim has been infringed upon;
- a description of where the material that you claim is infringing is located on the site, including the auction ID number, if applicable; your address, telephone number, and e-mail address;
- a statement by you that you have a good-faith belief that the disputed use is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law; and
- a statement by you, made under penalty of perjury, that the above information in your notice is accurate and that you are the copyright owner or authorized to act on the copyright owner's behalf.
Please note that this procedure is exclusively for notifying Ettinger’s Factoids that your copyrighted material has been infringed.

## Feedback Policy

### Product Feedback
If you want to send us your feedback we ask that you send it to ettingersfactoids@gmail.com and provide us with your specific observations and other feedback on Ettinger’s Factoids. Any feedback you provide to us shall be deemed non-confidential, and we reserve the right to use such information on an unrestricted basis.

### Idea Submission Policy
It is our policy not to accept or consider unsolicited ideas, including ideas for new advertising campaigns, new promotions, new or improved products or technologies, product enhancements, source code, processes, materials, marketing plans or new product names. The purpose of this policy is to avoid potential misunderstandings or disputes when Ettinger’s Factoids products or related aspects might seem similar to ideas submitted to us. If you send us your ideas, despite our policy, then regardless of what your submission says, you agree to the following terms:
1. You revoke your rights and claims regarding any submissions you make regarding Ettinger’s Factoids.
2. We may use, disclose or redistribute your submission and its contents for any purpose and in any way.
3. We are under no obligation to review the submission, respond to you or return any materials included in any submissions.
4. There is no obligation to keep any submissions confidential.

## Privacy Policy

Your use of Ettinger’s Factoids, including any information you submit or otherwise provide to us, is governed by the Ettinger’s Factoids Privacy Policy. Please take a moment to read through it.

## Termination

If you fail, or we reasonably believe you have failed, to comply with any of the provisions of these Terms of Use or any other applicable usage terms, we in our sole discretion, reserve the right to terminate your use of Ettinger’s Factoids.

## DISCLAIMERS AND LIMITATION OF LIABILITY

THERE MAY BE DELAYS, OMISSIONS ERRORS OR INACCURACIES IN ETTINGER’S FACTOIDS. ETTINGER’S FACTOIDS IS PROVIDED TO YOU ON AN "AS IS" BASIS WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND. WE, ETTINGER’S FACTOIDS, ELSEVIER INC., AND THE RESPECTIVE AFFILIATES, OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS AND LICENSORS DO NOT MAKE ANY REPRESENTATIONS AND, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, HEREBY DISCLAIM, WITH RESPECT TO ETTINGER’S FACTOIDS (INCLUDING ALL CONTENT, MATERIAL REFERENCED IN SUCH CONTENT, INFORMATION SUBMITTED BY ANY PERSON TO ETTINGER’S FACTOIDS OR TO ELSEVIER, INC. AS RELATES TO ETTINGER’S FACTOIDS, AND ANY THIRD PARTY CONTENT), ALL EXPRESS, IMPLIED AND STATUTORY WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND TO YOU OR ANY THIRD PARTY, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES REGARDING ACCURACY, TIMELINESS, RESULTS, COMPLETENESS, CURRENTNESS, RELIABILITY, STABILITY, READINESS, IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND ANY REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES ARISING FROM USAGE OR CUSTOM OR TRADE OR BY OPERATION OF LAW. WE, ETTINGER’S FACTOIDS, ELSEVIER INC., AND THEIR RESPECTIVE AFFILIATES, OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS AND LICENSORS ASSUME NO RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE CONSEQUENCES OF ANY ERRORS OR OMISSIONS. ANY MATERIAL, INFORMATION OR CONTENT DOWNLOADED OR OTHERWISE OBTAINED THROUGH THE USE OF ETTINGER’S FACTOIDS IS ACCESSED AT YOUR OWN RISK AND DISCRETION AND YOU ALONE WILL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY DAMAGE OR LOSS TO YOU, INCLUDING AND NOT LIMITED TO YOUR COMPUTER SYSTEM, DATA, ANY PROPERTY, OR LOSS OF REVENUE THAT RESULTS FROM THE DOWNLOAD, ACCESS, AND/OR USE OF ETTINGER’S FACTOIDS.

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES WILL WE, ETTINGER’S FACTOIDS, ELSEVIER INC., OR OUR/THEIR RESPECTIVE AFFILIATES, OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS, OR LICENSORS BE LIABLE DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY IN ANY WAY FOR ANY CONTENT, INCLUDING FOR ANY INACCURACY, DELAY, INTERRUPTION IN SERVICE, ERROR OR OMISSION, REGARDLESS OF CAUSE, OR FOR ANY DAMAGES RESULTING THEREFROM. IN NO EVENT WILL WE, ETTINGER’S FACTOIDS, ELSEVIER INC., OR ANY OF OUR/THEIR RESPECTIVE AFFILIATES, OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS OR LICENSORS BE LIABLE TO YOU OR TO ANYONE ELSE FOR (A) ANY DIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, PUNITIVE, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY OTHER LOSS OR INJURY CAUSED IN WHOLE OR IN PART BY CONTINGENCIES BEYOND OUR/THEIR CONTROL, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, LOST TIME, LOST MONEY, LOST PROFITS OR GOODWILL, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT, STRICT LIABILITY OR OTHERWISE, AND WHETHER OR NOT SUCH DAMAGES ARE FORESEEN OR UNFORESEEN WITH RESPECT TO ANY USE OF ETTINGER’S FACTOIDS (INCLUDING ANY CONTENT); (B) ANY NEGLIGENCE, INCLUDING ANY GROSS NEGLIGENCE, IN PROCURING, PROVIDING, COMPILING, EDITING, WRITING, TRANSMITTING OR DELIVERING ANY CONTENT; OR (C) ANY DAMAGES ARISING FROM YOUR USE OF ANY THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE OR SERVICES REQUIRED TO ACCESS AND/OR USE THE SERVICE. IN ANY CASE, OUR AGGREGATE LIABILITY UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WITH RESPECT TO ANY CLAIM RELATING TO THE PURCHASE OF ETTINGER’S FACTOIDS SHALL NOT EXCEED THE AMOUNT YOU ACTUALLY PAID FOR A LICENSE TO ETTINGER’S FACTOIDS.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN ETTINGER’S FACTOIDS IS NO SUBSTITUTE FOR INDIVIDUAL PATIENT ASSESSMENT BASED UPON A HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONAL’S EXAMINATION OF EACH PATIENT AND CONSIDERATION OF, AMONG OTHER THINGS, AGE, WEIGHT, GENDER, CURRENT OR PRIOR MEDICAL CONDITIONS, MEDICATION HISTORY, LABORATORY DATA AND OTHER FACTORS UNIQUE TO THE PATIENT. WHILE ETTINGER’S FACTOIDS MAY DESCRIBE VARIOUS BASIC PRINCIPLES OF DIAGNOSIS AND THERAPY, ETTINGER’S FACTOIDS DOES NOT REPLACE THE PROFESSIONAL TRAINING THAT MUST BE COMPLETED BY A VETERINARIAN IN ORDER TO ENGAGE IN VETERINARY PROACTICE, NOR CAN IT BE USED AS A RESOURCE FOR MAKING CLINICAL DECISIONS IN VETERINARY PATIENTS. VETERINARY CLIENTS (AND THEIR VETERINARY HEALTHCARE PROVIDERS) SHOULD EXERCISE THEIR OWN INDEPENDENT PROFESSIONAL AND CLINICAL JUDGMENT, TAKING INTO ACCOUNT SPECIFIC INFORMATION ABOUT PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL PATIENTS THAT CANNOT BE ASCERTAINED OR TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT AS A PART OF THE NECESSARILY GENERIC OR SUMMARY SERVICE OFFERINGS THAT MAKE UP ETTINGER’S FACTOIDS. NO REFERENCED OR SUGGESTED TEST, PROCEDURE OR RESPONSIVE ACTION SHOULD BE DIRECTED OR UNDERTAKEN UNLESS, IN THE CLIENT’S (AND HIS OR HER VETERINARY HEALTHCARE PROVIDER’S) PROFESSIONAL JUDGMENT, ITS USE IS MEDICALLY APPROPRIATE FOR THE INDIVIDUAL PATIENT IN THE PARTICULAR CIRCUMSTANCES. A CLIENT AND HIS OR HER VETERINARY HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS ARE SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR INDEPENDENTLY REACHING ANY MEDICAL JUDGMENT AND FOR ANY RESULTING DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENTS, NOTWITHSTANDING ANY USE OF ETTINGER’S FACTOIDS BY SUCH VETERINARY MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL.

GIVEN CONTINUOUS, RAPID ADVANCES IN VETERINARY MEDICAL SCIENCE AND HEALTH INFORMATION, INDEPENDENT PROFESSIONAL VERIFICATION OF MEDICAL DIAGNOSES, INDICATIONS, APPROPRIATE PHARMACEUTICAL SELECTIONS AND DOSAGES, AND TREATMENT OPTIONS SHOULD BE MADE AND A CLIENT (AND HIS OR HER HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS) SHOULD CONSULT A VARIETY OF SOURCES. WHEN PRESCRIBING MEDICATION, A CLIENT AND HIS OR HER HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS ARE ADVISED TO CONSULT THE PRODUCT INFORMATION SHEET (THE MANUFACTURER’S “PACKAGE INSERT”) ACCOMPANYING EACH DRUG TO VERIFY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, CONDITIONS OF USE, WARNINGS AND SIDE EFFECTS AND IDENTIFY ANY CHANGES IN DOSAGE SCHEDULE OR CONTRADICTIONS, PARTICULARLY IF THE MEDICATION TO BE ADMINISTERED IS NEW, INFREQUENTLY USED OR HAS A NARROW THERAPEUTIC RANGE. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED UNDER APPLICABLE LAW, NO RESPONSIBILITY IS ASSUMED BY US, ETTINGER’S FACTOIDS, ELSEVIER INC., OR ANY OF OUR/THEIR RESPECTIVE AFFILIATES, OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS OR LICENSORS FOR ANY INJURY AND/OR DAMAGE TO PERSONS OR PROPERTY, AS A MATTER OF PRODUCTS LIABILITY, NEGLIGENCE LAW OR OTHERWISE, OR FROM ANY REFERENCE TO OR USE BY A PATIENT (OR ANY OF HIS OR HER HEALTHCARE PROVIDERS) OF ETTINGER’S FACTOIDS. 

## Additional Mobile Application Terms

To use the Ettinger’s Factoids downloadable application (“App”), you must have a mobile device that is compatible with it. We do not warrant that the Apps will be compatible with your mobile device. We hereby grant to you a non-exclusive, non-transferable, revocable license to install and use an object code copy of the Apps for one registered account on one mobile device owned or leased solely by you, for your personal use. You may not: (i) modify, disassemble, decompile or reverse engineer any App, except to the extent that such restriction is expressly prohibited by law; (ii) rent, lease, loan, resell, sublicense, distribute or otherwise transfer any App to any third party or use any App to provide time sharing or similar services for any third party; (iii) make any copies of any App; (iv) remove, circumvent, disable, damage or otherwise interfere with security-related features of any App, features that prevent or restrict use or copying of any content accessible through an App, or features that enforce limitations on use of an App; or (v) delete the copyright and other proprietary rights notices on any App. You acknowledge that we may from time to time issue upgraded versions of an App, and may automatically electronically upgrade the version of an App that you are using on your mobile device, but that we have no obligation to do so. You consent to such automatic upgrading on your mobile device, and agree that the terms and conditions of these Terms of Use will apply to all such upgrades. The foregoing license grant is not a sale of the Apps or any copy thereof, and we and our third-party licensors or suppliers retain all right, title, and interest in and to all Apps (and any copies thereof). Standard carrier data charges may apply to your use of an App.

The following additional terms and conditions apply with respect to any App that we provide to you that is designed for use on an Apple iOS-powered mobile device (an “iOS App”):
- You acknowledge that these Terms are between you and us only, and not with Apple, Inc. (“Apple”).
- Your use of the iOS App must comply with Usage Rules set forth in Apple’s then-current App Store Terms of Service.
- We, and not Apple, are solely responsible for our iOS App and the services and content available thereon. You acknowledge that Apple has no obligation to provide maintenance and support services with respect to our iOS App. To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, Apple will have no warranty obligation whatsoever with respect to our iOS App and any other claims, losses, liabilities, damages, costs or expenses attributable to any failure of the iOS App to conform to any warranty.
- You agree that we, and not Apple, are responsible for addressing any claims by you or any third party relating to our iOS App or your possession and/or use of our iOS App, including, but not limited to: (i) product liability claims; (ii) any claim that the iOS App fails to conform to any applicable legal or regulatory requirement; and (iii) claims arising under consumer protection or similar legislation, and all such claims are governed solely by these Terms and any law applicable to us as provider of the iOS App.
- You agree that we, and not Apple, shall be responsible, to the extent required by these Terms, for the investigation, defense, settlement and discharge of any third-party intellectual property infringement claim related to our iOS App or your possession and use of our iOS App.
- You represent and warrant that (i) you are not located in a country that is subject to a U.S. Government embargo, or that has been designated by the U.S. Government as a “terrorist supporting” country; and (ii) You are not listed on any U.S. Government list of prohibited or restricted parties.
- You agree to comply with all applicable third-party terms of agreement when using our iOS App (e.g., you must not be in violation of your wireless data service terms of agreement when using the iOS App).
- You agree that Apple and Apple’s subsidiaries are third party beneficiaries to these Terms as they relate to your license to use the iOS App. Upon your acceptance of these Terms, Apple will have the right (and will be deemed to have accepted the right) to enforce these Terms against you as they relate to your license of the iOS App as a third-party beneficiary thereof.

## Dispute Resolution and Arbitration; Class Action Waiver.

Please read this carefully. It affects your rights.

Most customer concerns can be resolved quickly and to a customer’s satisfaction by contacting us at ettingersfactoids@gmail.com. Please note that the content (veterinary information) within Ettinger’s Factoids is owned via copyright by Elsevier, Inc. Concerns regarding the content should be addressed to Elsevier by phone ((800) 545 2522) or email (https://service.elsevier.com/app/contact/supporthub/).

This Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Provision facilitates the prompt and efficient resolution of any disputes that may arise between you and us. Arbitration is a form of private dispute resolution in which persons with a dispute waive their rights to file a lawsuit, to proceed in court and to a jury trial, and instead submit their disputes to a neutral third person (or arbitrator) for a binding decision. You have the right to opt-out of this Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Provision (as explained below), which means you would retain your right to litigate your disputes in a court, either before a judge or jury.

Please read this Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Provision carefully. It provides that all Disputes between you and us shall be resolved by binding arbitration. Arbitration replaces the right to go to court. In the absence of this arbitration agreement, you may otherwise have a right or opportunity to bring claims in a court, before a judge or jury, and/or to participate in or be represented in a case filed in court by others (including, but not limited to, class actions). Except as otherwise provided, entering into this agreement constitutes a waiver of your right to litigate claims and all opportunity to be heard by a judge or jury. There is no judge or jury in arbitration, and court review of an arbitration award is limited. The arbitrator must follow this agreement and can award the same damages and relief as a court (including attorney’s fees).

The term “Dispute” means any dispute, claim, or controversy between you and us regarding any aspect of your relationship with us, whether based in contract, statute, regulation, ordinance, tort (including, but not limited to, fraud, misrepresentation, fraudulent inducement, or negligence), or any other legal or equitable theory, and includes the validity, enforceability or scope of this Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Provision (with the exception of the enforceability of the Class Action Waiver clause below). “Dispute” is to be given the broadest possible meaning that will be enforced, and shall include any claims against other parties relating to services or products provided or billed to you (such as our licensors, suppliers, dealers or third party vendors) whenever you also assert claims against us in the same proceeding.

WE EACH AGREE THAT, EXCEPT AS PROVIDED BELOW, ANY AND ALL DISPUTES, AS DEFINED ABOVE, WHETHER PRESENTLY IN EXISTENCE OR BASED ON ACTS OR OMISSIONS IN THE PAST OR IN THE FUTURE, WILL BE RESOLVED EXCLUSIVELY AND FINALLY BY BINDING ARBITRATION RATHER THAN IN COURT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS PROVISION.

### Pre-Arbitration Claim Resolution
For all Disputes, whether pursued in court or arbitration, you must first give us an opportunity to resolve the Dispute. You must commence this process by sending notification to ettingersfactoids@gmail.com. That written notification must include (1) your name, (2) your address, (3) a written description of your Claim, and (4) a description of the specific relief you seek. If we do not resolve the Dispute within 45 days after it receives your written notification, you may pursue your Dispute in arbitration. You may pursue your Dispute in a court only under the circumstances described below.

### Exclusions from Arbitration/Right to Opt Out
Notwithstanding the above, you or we may choose to pursue a Dispute in court and not by arbitration if (a) the Dispute qualifies, it may be initiated in small claims court; or (b) YOU OPT-OUT OF THESE ARBITRATION PROCEDURES WITHIN 30 DAYS FROM THE DATE THAT YOU FIRST CONSENT TO THIS AGREEMENT (the “Opt-Out Deadline”). You may opt out of this Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Provision by emailing written notification to ettingersfactoids@gmail.com. Your written notification must include (1) your name, (2) your address, and (3) a clear statement that you do not wish to resolve disputes with us through arbitration. Your decision to opt-out of this Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Provision will have no adverse effect on your relationship with us. Any opt-out request received after the Opt-Out Deadline will not be valid and you must pursue your Dispute in arbitration or small claims court.

### Arbitration Procedures
If this Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Provision applies and the Dispute is not resolved as provided above (Pre-Arbitration Claim Resolution) either you or we may initiate arbitration proceedings. The American Arbitration Association (“AAA”), www.adr.org, or JAMS, www.jamsadr.com, will arbitrate all Disputes, and the arbitration will be conducted before a single arbitrator. The arbitration shall be commenced as an individual arbitration, and shall in no event be commenced as a class arbitration. All issues shall be for the arbitrator to decide, including the scope of this Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Provision.

For arbitration before the AAA, for Disputes of less than $75,000, the AAA’s Supplementary Procedures for Consumer-Related Disputes will apply; for Disputes involving $75,000 or more, the AAA’s Commercial Arbitration Rules will apply. In either instance, the AAA’s Optional Rules For Emergency Measures Of Protection shall apply. The AAA rules are available at www.adr.org or by calling 1-800-778-7879. For arbitration before JAMS, the JAMS Comprehensive Arbitration Rules & Procedures and the JAMS Recommended Arbitration Discovery Protocols For Domestic, Commercial Cases will apply. The JAMS rules are available at www.jamsadr.com or by calling 1-800-352-5267. This Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Provision governs in the event it conflicts with the applicable arbitration rules. Under no circumstances will class action procedures or rules apply to the arbitration.

Because the Service, the App and these Terms concern interstate commerce, the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) governs the arbitrability of all Disputes. However, the arbitrator will apply applicable substantive law consistent with the FAA and the applicable statute of limitations or condition precedent to suit.

Arbitration Award – The arbitrator may award on an individual basis any relief that would be available pursuant to applicable law, and will not have the power to award relief to, against or for the benefit of any person who is not a party to the proceeding. The arbitrator will make any award in writing but need not provide a statement of reasons unless requested by a party. Such award will be final and binding on the parties, except for any right of appeal provided by the FAA, and may be entered in any court having jurisdiction over the parties for purposes of enforcement.

Location of Arbitration – We may initiate arbitration in either Prince Edward Island, Canada or the U.S. federal judicial district that includes your billing address. In the event that you select the federal judicial district that includes your billing address, we may transfer the arbitration to Prince Edward Island, Canada in the event that it agrees to pay any additional fees or costs you incur as a result of the transfer, as determined by the arbitrator.

Payment of Arbitration Fees and Costs – we will pay all arbitration filing fees and arbitrator’s costs and expenses upon your written request given prior to the commencement of the arbitration. You are responsible for all additional fees and costs that you incur in the arbitration, including, but not limited to, attorneys or expert witnesses. Fees and costs may be awarded as provided pursuant to applicable law. In addition to any rights to recover fees and costs under applicable law, if you provide notice and negotiate in good faith with us as provided in the section above titled “Pre-Arbitration Claim Resolution” and the arbitrator concludes that you are the prevailing party in the arbitration, you will be entitled to recover reasonable attorney’s fees and costs as determined by the arbiter.

### Class Action Waiver
Except as otherwise provided in this Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Provision, the arbiter may not consolidate more than one person’s claims, and may not otherwise preside over any form of a class or representative proceeding or claims (such as a class action, consolidated action or private attorney general action) unless both you and we specifically agree to do so following initiation of the arbitration. If you choose to pursue your Dispute in court by opting out of the Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Provision, as specified above, this Class Action Waiver will not apply to you. Neither you, nor any other user of Ettinger’s Factoids can be a class representative, class member, or otherwise participate in a class, consolidated, or representative proceeding without having complied with the opt-out requirements above.

### Severability
If any clause within this Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Provision (other than the Class Action Waiver clause above) is found to be illegal or unenforceable, that clause will be severed from this Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Provision, and the remainder of this Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Provision will be given full force and effect. If the Class Action Waiver clause is found to be illegal or unenforceable, this entire Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Provision will be unenforceable and the Dispute will be decided by a court.

### Continuation
This Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Provision shall survive the termination of these Terms. Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, we agree that if we make any change to this Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Provision (other than a change to the Notice Address), you may reject any such change and require us to adhere to the language in this Dispute Resolution and Arbitration Provision if a dispute between us arises.

### General Terms
We reserve the right to enforce these Terms of Use, including by terminating access to Ettinger’s Factoids. If we do not enforce any part of our Terms of Use, that does not mean that we waive our right to do so.

Please note that these Terms of Use are governed by the laws of the province of Prince Edward Island, Canada, without regard to principles of the conflicts of law, and may not be modified except as expressly stated herein. Except for Disputes subject to arbitration as described above, any dispute arising out of or relating in any way to these Terms of Use will be adjudicated in any provincial court in Prince Edward Island, Canada, and you consent to exclusive jurisdiction and venue in such courts.

You agree to comply with all applicable export and re-export restrictions and regulations, and you will not transfer, or encourage, assist, or authorize the transfer of any software included in Ettinger’s Factoids to a prohibited country or otherwise in violation of any such restrictions or regulations. In particular, but without limitation, no portion of Ettinger’s Factoids may be exported or re-exported (a) into any U.S.-embargoed countries or (b) to anyone on the U.S. Treasury Department's Specially Designated Nationals List or the U.S. Department of Commerce Denied Persons List or Entity List. By using Ettinger’s Factoids, you represent and warrant that you are not located in any such country or on any such list. You also agree that you will not use these products for any purposes prohibited by Canadian and/or United States law, including, without limitation, the development, design, manufacture, or production of nuclear, missile, or chemical or biological weapons.

We reserve the right to make changes to our site, policies, and these Terms of Use at any time. This is the entire agreement between us and you regarding Ettinger’s Factoids and it supersedes all prior understandings regarding such subject matter. If any term or condition of these Terms of Use is deemed invalid, void, or for any reason unenforceable, that part will be deemed severable and will not affect the validity and enforceability of any remaining term or condition.

Contact: ettingersfactoids@gmail.com
